---
layout: blog
title: "Revolution via the Occupy Movement"
description: "Final paper for a class on avant-garde"
mydate: "December 6, 2011"
tags:
- essay
---

The Occupy movement, known also as Occupy Wall Street, is a protest movement meant to challenge the supposed economic and social inequality caused by irresponsible financial practices and the undue influence of banks and financial institutions on the government.  The movement started in the United States with the Occupy Wall Street protest, but has since spread to at least 95 cities across 82 countries.  Their slogan is “We are the 99%,” referring to the disproportionate amount of wealth and tax benefits concentrated in the top 1% of the population.  Many notable figures have allied themselves with the movement directly and indirectly: Noam Chomsky, Michael Moore, Roseanne Barr(Emmy-winner), Chris Hedges(Pulitzer-winner), Ydanis Rodriguez(NYC council member), Russell Simmons, and Russell Brand are some of the more visible supporters of the movement.  There is no leader or central organization, and most of the planning for events takes place locally.

The protests in the United States have been marked by seemingly unnecessary violence and other questionable practices by police forces in their attempts to evict protesters.  One example of this is the eviction of Zucotti Park, or Liberty Square as it’s sometimes known, in New York city.  Zucotti Park was used as a staging ground for Occupy Wall Street activities as early as September 17, 2011, and grew to be an encampment complete with tents, a library, and full-time inhabitants.  It was raided by police at 1AM on November 15, purportedly to clear the park for sanitation purposes.  On the whole, the eviction, which lasted about 3 hours, went peacefully, however there were consistent reports of violence used against the protesters, including the use of pepper spray and “[shoving] a lot of people’s faces into the ground.”  Perhaps the most astonishing part of the whole matter was the concerted effort by police to keep journalists away from the action.  Writers and photographers with legitimate press credentials were denied access to the park and the protesters, and news helicopters were not allowed to enter the airspace above the park.

Reports of police brutality are nothing new to Occupy protests; recent news posts and broadcasts have documented the liberal use of pepper spray by police across the country, even on sitting protesters and the elderly.  Tear gas, rubber bullets, and even sonic technology developed by the military have all been used to suppress protesters.  Detainees have reported abuse inside prisons, including poor food and water, lack of sanitation measures, and lack of treatment for the wounded.  In regards to the press, the arrest of at least 30 professional journalists since September and the increasing difficulty of acquiring press credentials has sparked outcry from the likes of John Ensslin, president of the Society of Professional Journalists.

It’s clear that there is resistance to the Occupy movement, and much of it is state-sanctioned.  What’s not so clear is why our government seems so keen on keeping these protests on the back foot, and why police have been willing to use extensive force to deal with (mostly) peaceful protesters.  The shady handling of Occupy protests is, in my opinion, a symptom of a government at odds with its constituents.  But instead of speculating on the largely impenetrable machinations of our government in hopes of finding evidence of corruption and conspiracy, I will instead turn to the Occupy movement itself, and examine its practices and philosophy in the context of a revolution, in hopes that solutions to the varied problems we face might reveal themselves.  Progress doesn’t always entail moving forward; sometimes walls have to be broken down and ideas reworked, and this is the purpose of revolution.   “Revolution” is a very charged word, one that has seen use in the vernacular of the Occupy movement, but I believe that the opportunity for a true modern revolution is at hand.  We have, not for the first time, a large group of people spanning many demographics which are unhappy with the economic, social, and political state of their world.  The difference is the unprecedented variety and power of the tools at their whim.  These tools include the handheld camera, social networking, worldwide conflict and crisis, international communication capabilities, efficient transportation, and an immense, accessible, modifiable knowledge base.  But in order for the Occupy movement to progress towards a true social and political revolution which redefines the political climate as well as overarching mindsets such as consumerism and partisanship, it must not only embrace these tools, but also create its own.  With nothing new to bring to the table, how can one call it a revolution?

The challenge that all revolutions face is repurposing the available technology and intellectual climate to catalyze change, as well as creating new technologies and philosophies which are better equipped to deal with modern-day problems.  In the essay “Towards the Third Cinema” by Solanas and Gettino, they say: “In the neocolonial situation two concepts of culture, art, science, and cinema compete: *that of the rulers and that of the nation*.”  The problem facing revolutionary movements is that all the tools they have to wage revolution with were created within the existing system.  Even their scientific knowledge is informed by the institutions of the established culture.  “The revolutionary organizations lack specialized fronts in the Establishment’s medicine, engineering, psychology, and art - not to mention the development of our own revolutionary engineering, psychology, art, and cinema.”  In order for drastic social and political change to take place, the entire knowledge base of the existing establishment must be uprooted, reevaluated, and remade.  Principles of old must be updated.  New research must be done on current problems.  Artists must change their vernacular and mode of expression to reflect modern philosophies and methods of thought.  In short, a revolution must be utter and all-encompassing.

Granted, inhabitants of the United States do not face the blatant oppression of colonial holdings Solana and Gettino commented on, but it’s easy to see a dichotomy between the “official” culture of consumerism and practice of corporatism sponsored by GM, Coca-Cola, Hollywood, and the financial sector, and the cries of “the 99%.”  Denizens of the US have also experienced their share of abuse at the hands of elite bankers and financiers; our current economic situation is largely due to irresponsible practices by finance workers, who saw the debts and loans of millions as opportunities for quick cash.  Ever since 9/11, the country has been increasingly at war overseas, and the effects of the Patriot Act and similar legislation have tightened the leashes on our “inalienable rights.”  Movements on both sides of the political spectrum, namely the Tea Party and Occupy movements, voice their own misgivings over the operation of the government and its influence in our daily lives.  Controversial legislation concerning free speech, privacy, and the treatment of terrorists and dissenters has led to various groups voicing their disagreement.  It would seem that currently, the United States is in turmoil.

This climate of disagreement and malcontent has set the stage for the Occupy movement to gain ground.  Thus far, members of Occupy have achieved much their notoriety by proliferating their messages and images through social networking websites like Twitter and YouTube.  The problem with using social networking to spread revolutionary content is that these tools exist in the technological framework that our government developed.  The foundational network innovations of the internet, such as packet switching and the TCP/IP protocol, were developed using DARPA funds.  The government will have no issues monitoring and even controlling(if they desire) content that is on the web.  Indeed, the Iranian government, in the wake of the social media driven uprisings starting in early of February 2011, looked up seditious Twitter posts by their citizens and detained some of those who had been actively supporting dissent online.  This is a lower-tech example, but it illustrates the ease with which governments can use technology for oppressive means.  It is not at all unreasonable to assume that in the future, the government will be able to thoroughly penetrate the internet as well as personal electronic devices for whatever it sees fit..

Even the US has recently shown its willingness to monitor and restrict the internet.  The Senate and House proposed the PROTECT-IP and SOPA bills respectively in 2011.  SOPA, the more extreme of the two, would implement technologies that Iran and China utilize, such as DNS blacklisting, which can remove domestic and foreign sites from visibility.  In the US, much of this is meant to prevent piracy and impede terrorist activities, but totalitarian governments like Iran and China use the same methods to actively sensor web content.  If the Occupy movement and other revolutions wish to truly gain ground in the face of an oppressive government, they will have to find some way around the limitations of a monitorable internet.

A truly revolutionary movement in this day and age must come with or in light of advanced computer networking technology and net security measures.  Packets and password hashes are the letters and seals of the 21st century.  Freedom of information is important for democracy, but protection of information is important for dissenting.  The People’s Library, a community-made library consisting of texts and other protest-related materials, religious texts, and scholarly articles, was started in Zucotti Park during the Occupy Wall Street protests.  During the eviction, the library was dismantled and most of its contents destroyed or damaged, despite claims by Mayor Bloomberg that the materials would be stored safely.  This generated outrage from not only librarians, offended by the prospect of destroying intellectual content in its own right, but also from the movement as a whole, as many critical documents relating to the movement’s history and purpose were lost.  Had this collection been stored on the internet, its security may or may not have been significantly more assured.  In order to protect the content generated by a movement and the communication between its members, currently unavailable methods of electronic storage and transmission must be used, lest we go back to handing out pamphlets with “Common Sense” written on them.

But these are largely practical considerations concerned with the operation of a revolution.  If a revolution is not based in any sort of appreciable intellectual movement, there will be no outpouring of new ideas and opinions to inform the actions of the revolution.  The Occupy protests kicked off at Wall Street, and consequent protests occurred at banks all over the country.  As many as 650,000 people transferred from their banks to local, non-profit credit unions over the course of October as part of the Bank Transfer Day movement.  These actions display the Occupy movement’s frustration with the financial sector for ruining the economy with shady business practices and their desire for a more society-oriented financial system.  Ideas and knowledge open avenues for action, and actions reveal the philosophy behind the actors.  The more comprehensive discourse and research there is behind a movement, the more it will be able to do to get its message out and enact the change it wants to see.

Since Occupy is primarily concerned with the operation of the financial sector and unequal wealth distribution, it follows that cutting edge research on economics should be part of its repertoire.  How are we to replace corrupt financial institutions and systems if we have nothing to replace them with?  What studies and theories will influence the next generation of stock traders?  What hard data and expert opinions will be available to lawmakers imposing restrictions on the financial sector?  These are all considerations that the Occupy movement raise, but with no solutions, there is no terribly compelling reason to invest in it.

Increased attention must be given to the education of our children.  Grade school is perhaps the pinnacle of being trapped in a government framework.  Indoctrination at the hands of public school teachers is particularly insidious, as easy as it is to impress ideas on children.  Not to say that we need to be afraid of our children being subjected to propaganda films and the like; ensuring that our children receive a balanced and comprehensive education emphasising critical thinking and intellectual freedom is vastly more important.  A populace willing to just go along with things instead of considering alternatives and standing up for themselves is just as dangerous as an oppressive government is.  

The education system is also a part of the wider economic issues we’re experiencing in the US: unprecedented numbers of college graduates are unable to find jobs, and returning home after college is becoming increasingly common.  The problem is that the system is designed on the basis that a bachelor’s degree guarantees a job, a very outdated idea.  Especially in hard economic times, businesses aren’t looking for people with degrees, they’re looking for competent workers they can depend on.  A degree will get an interview, but applicable skills and knowledge will get a job.  The problem with modern-day college education is that a degree does not necessarily entail the skills required to function in the workplace.  The school system needs to be updated to better prepare young people for the workforce, so that our most productive age demographic can hit the ground running after college instead of floundering for lack of usefulness in the grand scheme of things.  This is essentially the same goal of the current school system, but its methods are vastly outdated.

One of the most important aspects of any revolutionary movement is its art.  Art has the capacity to excite emotion in a way that facts and discussions simply can’t.  Revolutions are usually incited and even carried out by a vocal minority, so the eventual success of the movement is contingent upon its ability to change the minds of the doubters and the fence-sitters.  Cold, hard facts and vague discourse on lofty moral ideals largely serve as affirmation for those already convinced of the legitimacy of the movement.  A movement’s art must serve as a catalyst for its ideas and goals, so that those unaware or unconvinced of the situation may open their minds and see what all the fuss is about.

Much of Occupy’s art up until now has been “street art”: signs, posters, an LED display showing the date, with “Hey! Wall Street! We got our own ticker!!!” taped across the top, photographs, a mostly nude woman with “The naked truth: Wall Street is screwing us all” written on her stomach, and so on.  Live music performances and poetry readings are also standard fare at Occupy protests.  No Comment, “an exhibit in the old JP Morgan building at 23 Wall Street displaying the work of artists from around the globe who have been inspired be recent events,” is a hub for visual art related to the movement.  All of these examples are works of art made by the people, for the people, outside the confines of the corporate art world.  Indeed, some artists are complaining of being marginalized even in their own field; Anna Harrah, a co-curator of No Comment, is “using her curatorial skills to circumvent an art world she perceives as having become increasingly exclusive due to corporate wealth.”  The Occupy movement has, it seems, recognized the need to produce art that is exclusively its own, from inception to production to distribution.  

However, Occupy has not made any daring artistic explorations of note.  The content of its art is certainly revolutionary, and we cannot discount their strides in separating themselves from mainstream artistic culture, but there has been no work that stands out as an ubiquitous representation of revolution.  The art of Occupy can be classified as avant garde in regards to its political nature and rejection of the current cultural scene, but until it violently departs from artistic tradition, it will not have the effect or depth that it could.  A quick glance at Soviet Russia’s art during its revolutionary period yields some highly influential avant garde artists: Eisenstein, Vertov, Chernikhov, Malevich, Gabo.  It might be presumptuous to demand that artistic visionaries come out the wood works for the next Occupy protest, but comprehensive intellectual discourse is, in my opinion, one of the driving forces behind any revolutionary movement.  Art offers a medium for this discourse, but works of art must be revolutionary in every sense so that the intellectual playing field shifts to encompass the new ideas and technologies brought about by a revolution.

The Occupy Wall Street movement has garnered worldwide attention and generated lots of discourse on the state of the economy and our nation.  Its tenets of better financial practices in the private sector and more society-oriented public policies have resonated with many.  Given the current economic and political circumstances, as well as the availability of powerful social networking tools and immense information stores, Occupy’s goal of revolutionizing how our society thinks and operates seems like a possibility.  However, it doesn’t seem to bring a whole lot more to the table in terms of hard scientific research, philosophy, and culture.  The movement largely operates within the mainstream cultural and technological infrastructure that is within reach of manipulation by the government.  To quote “Towards a Third Cinema” once more, “It is evident that revolutionary mass-level culture and awareness can only be achieved after the taking of political power, but it is no less true that the use of scientific and artistic means, together with political-military means, prepares the terrain for the revolution to become reality and facilitates the solution of the problems that will arise with the taking of power.”  Some may view Occupy Wall Street as a radical group, which it may be, but Occupy is only setting the stage for what could be around the corner.


###Works Cited
Long, Colleen. "Zuccotti Park Eviction: Police Arrest 200 Occupy Wall Street Protesters." Breaking News and Opinion on The Huffington Post. Huffington Post, 15 Nov. 2011. Web. 07 Dec. 2011. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/15/zuccotti-park-eviction-po_n_1094306.html>.

"Occupy Wall Street - A Collection." STREET ART UTOPIA. Web. 07 Dec. 2011. <http://www.streetartutopia.com>.

"Occupy Wall Street: Handmade Signs and #Hashtags." Brooklyn Street Art. 24 Sept. 2011. Web. 6 Dec. 2011. <http://www.brooklynstreetart.com/theblog/2011/09/24/occupy-wall-street-handmade-signs-and-hashtags/>.

"Occupy Wall Street Librarians Address Bloomberg for Destroying Books | OccupyWallSt.org." Occupy Wall Street | NYC Protest for World Revolution. 23 Nov. 2011. Web. 07 Dec. 2011. <http://occupywallst.org/article/occupy-wall-street-librarians-address-bloomberg-de/>.
"Occupy Wall Street 'Media Blackout': Journalists Arrested, Roughed Up, Blocked From Covering Clearing." The Huffington Post. Huffington Post, 15 Nov. 2011. Web. 07 Dec. 2011. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/15/occupy-wall-street-raid-journalists-arrested_n_1094564.html>.

"The People's Library." Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia. Wikipedia. Web. 07 Dec. 2011. <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_People's_Library>.

Pontz, Zach. "Occupy Wall Street: Art Meets Politics in Zuccotti Park | Zach Pontz | Rolling Stone." Rolling Stone. Rolling Stone, 14 Oct. 2011. Web. 05 Dec. 2011. <http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/blogs/national-affairs/occupy-wall-street-art-meets-politics-in-zuccotti-park-20111014>.

Solanas, Fernando, and Octavio Gettino. "Towards a Third Cinema." Alternative Aesthetics: 266-67. Print.

