---
layout: blog
title: "King Crimson and the Avant-Garde"
description: "Mid-term paper for a class on the avant-garde."
mydate: "October 25, 2011"
tags:
- essay
---

King Crimson is a progressive rock band originating in the late 1960’s which had considerable influence on multiple genres of music during its prime.  They are often cited as one of the foundational progressive rock bands, but their influence can be seen across genres ranging from punk to art rock. The band has seen numerous incarnations and personnel changes, totalling at least 7 different line-ups.  Band members have included Greg Lake of Emerson, Lake, and Palmer, and Bill Bruford of Yes. Only one member, Robert Fripp, has remained through all iterations of the line-up, and he is often seen as the musical and philosophical leader of the band.  Fripp, hailing from the UK, is a guitarist, composer, and producer who has collaborated with the likes of David Bowie, Talking Heads,  and ELP, among many others. His complete discography, spanning 45 years thus far, contains more than 700 official releases.  Their unique sound and long lasting success can at least partially be attributed to Fripp’s unique philosophy on and approach to making music, which takes inspiration from avant-garde movements old and new.

Avant-garde literally means “advance guard” or “vanguard”, and entails the pushing of boundaries past the confines of traditional or even contemporary art in order to achieve higher levels of artistic expression.  Many associate avant-garde art with wonky, out-there creations containing many blurred lines, and with good reason.  Take, for instance, the sound-poems of Hugo Ball, which seem little more than gibberish arranged into stanzas.  A line from “Death Chant” reads “gomun guma  zangaga  gago  blagaga.”  One doesn’t have to delve very far into King Crimson’s music to see the weirdness characteristic of so much avant-garde art. In fact, in the lyrics of “Elephant Talk”, one of their more recent songs, Adrian Belew lists out several batches of mildly related words, each batch starting with the same letter. He even goes as far to say “These are words with a D this time” in the middle of the D-word stanza.

But King Crimson is renowned more for their composition, instrumentation, and improvisation than their innovative lyrics.  Their first album, *In the Court of the Crimson King*, made a big splash because of its departure from the standard blues-based foundation of rock music, instead incorporating jazz and classical elements.  It received much acclaim, with praise from the likes of The Who’s Pete Townshend, who called it “an uncanny masterpiece.”  One of the defining features of this early album is the broad range of instruments used; saxophones, flutes, orchestral percussion, and a mellotron can all be heard throughout the album in addition to the standard components of any rock band. This is in line with the desire of other avant-garde artists to expand their mediums and use technology to achieve higher levels of artistic expression.  To this day, the vast array of sounds created with new instruments and techniques is one of the hallmark’s of King Crimson’s music.

Another defining characteristic of the band’s sound is the use of dissonance and extended stretches of improvisation, not unlike some jazz music. But King Crimson took their improvisation to the next level: instead of one person taking a solo to improvise while the rest of the band supports him(“jamming”), the members of King Crimson often improvise at the same time during their songs, purposely avoiding flashy riffs and good solo material in order to create a dynamic group sound where each member has creative power.  Sometimes one or some of the members will opt to not play the improvisation, if they think their contribution wouldn’t be in line with the going sound.  Many of their live performances have included at least one stand-alone improvisation where the band makes up an entire song on the spot.  Some of these improvisations have made it onto their records as pieces of other songs and even as whole songs.  The extended coda to “Moonchild” and the song “Trio” are respective examples. This type of playing is so central to King Crimson that Fripp’s contemporary guitarists labelled his style of playing, distinguished by heavy improvisation and synthesizer use, “Frippertronics”.  In a demonstration of said style, Fripp prefaced his performance by saying, “I think this is a very brave thing the producers of the show are doing, since they have no real idea of what it is I’m about to do, but, dedicating this performance to the proposition of hazard, neither do I.”

Fripp has said that King Crimson’s “music is littered with mines.  Crimson music is a mine field.”  He gives an example where, in a song they played regularly, Tony Levin once began on the wrong note, not because he forgot how the song went, but because their songs are purposely constructed to be unforgiving to the players.  This errant note by Levin can be viewed as an intentional part of the song, not a mistake.  It has “its own interest and appeal,” according to Fripp.  King Crimson have essentially written spontaneity into their pieces by making them very hard to play, and harnessed the mistakes inherent in their songs as another form of improvisation. 

As much as the band’s sound contains elements of avant-garde art, it is in the philosophy of the de facto frontman Robert Fripp that we can really see how the band can be grouped with other avant-garde artists.  First and foremost, Fripp is a music purist of sorts, largely at odds with the music industry.  It’s his belief that the music industry is good for neither musicians nor audiences, and has been involved in lengthy litigation regarding some of King Crimson’s work.  He even went as far as to create his own record company to more be able to create music more freely.  In a 1986 interview, he said, 

>...it would be truer to say that the music creates the musician than the musician creates the music. The quality of music is always present. So I work on craft. For example I continue to develop my attention to be relaxed, to be in a place where music can more freely play the human instrument.

The saying “art for art’s sake” comes to mind when examining Fripp’s philosophy on music.  He views music as almost transcendent to human beings, something that people have to participate in as well as yield themselves to in order to fully experience.  “[Fripp’s] experience was of the same musicians speaking to [him] in different dialects.  One musician speaking in different voices.” 

It’s fairly easy to classify King Crimson as an avant-garde music group.  Their music was revolutionary at the time, breaking the commercialized barriers of rock and pop through new sounds, complex, varied composition, and the use of shock and improvisation.  Their methods and ideas for creating music, mainly influenced by Robert Fripp, display a desire to innovate with music and overcome detriments to artistic freedom and expression.  Although King Crimson has never been terribly famous or even gotten much radio play, their artistic accomplishments and groundbreaking practices exerted heavy influence on the music world.  Genesis, Yes, Rush, Nirvana, and Iron Maiden have all cited King Crimson as an influence.  Few bands can boast to have jump-started so many diverse genres, progressive rock, alternative rock, and metal among them.  It may seem ironic that this bleeding edge group gave rise to some of the mainstays of contemporary music, but really, they just discovered what we liked before we even knew it existed.


###Works Cited
Bay, Sid S. "King Crimson." DGM Live! Discipline Global Mobile, Sept. 2005. Web. 25 Oct. 2011. <http://www.dgmlive.com/kc/index.htm?bio=true>.

"Fripp/Crimson Press Conference." Interview by Jason Gross. Perfect Sound Forever. Perfect Sound Forever, Apr. 1997. Web. 25 Oct. 2011. <http://www.furious.com/perfect/fripp.html>.

Nicholls, David. The Cambridge History of American Music. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2004. Print.

Robert Fripp - Frippertronics Demonstration '79 - YouTube. Perf. Robert Fripp. YouTube. 4 Feb. 2010. Web. 25 Oct. 2011. <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K8kcuqIqmIU>.


