---
layout: blog
title: "Lost in Paradise"
description: "Inspired by a trip to the fish market with my Papa Lu."
mydate: "August 18, 2014"
tags:
- creative
---

A clever trick, that line. A cruel lie concocted by devious old ladies with naught but their families to feed. They always started lining up an hour before the market open, keeping to themselves and whatever progeny they managed to rope out of bed as the sun crept over the horizon. They watched the fishermen haul crabs, halibut, snapper, and sharks past them to the assortment of fold-out tables, coolers, and buckets that constituted the market, occasionally stepping out of line (leaving a kid or husband in her place, of course) to peruse the day’s catch and ask after prices and such. They displayed a cool civility towards each other, but it was a facade meant for the inexperienced.

There was no need for them to check the time as 8AM sharp rolled around on this cool Saturday. The very second Rick took off his cap and began to proclaim “Alright everyone, let’s keep it orderly, no pushing, wait your turn, blah blah blah,” Vietnamese and Filipino wives flooded forward, heedless of anything remotely resembling a queue. A tall white man in UCLA colors didn’t stand a chance. His cumbersome tree trunk legs tried to tread around the tiny women flowing past him but managed only meager steps forward. He cried out with unheard protestations.

Hardly a minute later, those with the quickest step (or strongest elbows) began filtering out of the crowd, carrying plastic bags bulging with seafood no less fresh than when it had been hauled out the water. The roiling mass of cooks, providers, and enthusiasts less and less resembled a feeding frenzy, reluctantly settling into the civil exchange of goods that is so important to us. Customers well practiced in this strange imitation of the ocean’s goings-on snappily called out their orders as they reached the front of this or that “line”, and the fishermen who had made the catch bagged the requests as quickly as they came, handing them off to whoever was working the scale, a son or daughter or wife, who then called out the weight for whoever was working the cashier. Cash changed hands, often in even amounts with no change, and the customer was swept away by the current of all those behind them. Strange that few of these people were hungry, having eaten already to have energy for the event.

But it was no ordeal, perhaps a touch chaotic at the start, and though some were slighted, only the inexperienced took offense, like the tall white man in UCLA colors, who was griping at one of the fishermen’s daughters, gesturing violently towards a diminutive woman in a shawl who satisfactorily held a bag full of snapper. Apparently she had been right behind him in “the line”. The man, with his air of sureness that comes with success in a white-collar field, clearly didn’t understand the rules of this arena. There were mouths to feed.

An hour passed, and as usual most of the morning’s catch was gone. The market of Andria’s Seafood Restaurant and Market didn’t officially open until 11AM, but on weekends some of the local fishermen and their families collaborated to dole out some of the best seafood you could find for tens of miles to their friends, family, and neighbors, but even so you had to get there early to get in on the action. Not all the customers were strictly friendly, but with such a good catch at stake, what else could you expect? 

It being primarily a family thing, most didn’t resort to pike-like behavior. An old Filipino man with college-aged grandchildren in tow, both wielding five gallon buckets from Home Depot, had ambled into the market before the floodgates opened, had a quick chat with a fisherman he seemed to know well, and ambled back on out to the line. Come opening time, he ambled back on in, waited patiently in line with the kiddos, and once it was his turn, he was promptly handed fifteen pounds of the choicest crabs, including many females that it wasn’t strictly legal to have kept in the boat (at this time of year, their bellies would be full of exceedingly rich eggs), and as he fumbled through his billfold his kiddos had to deal with extra, free crabs being thrown at them by the other family while trying to fit the already immense amount of the things into their buckets. Seventy bucks. The same amount of crab at a high-end restaurant, several days dead and frozen, would have run two or three hundred dollars. In not three hours from sunrise, the grandkids would be rewarded for their early wakeup with meat that had still been alive when it went in the pot, and grandad would be able to enjoy his morning light beer without consternation from some uppity waiter.

That was the way of it at Andria’s. One more point on the enormous map of human civilization that takes the ancient struggle of the natural world and boils it down, taking millions of years of strife and adaptation in the harshest environments on the planet and practically shoving it into an old lady’s hands for a little bit of almighty money. The really funny thing is that her kids, and the old Filipino man’s grandkids, would not even have gone hungry had the quest to Andria’s been unsuccessful. They would’ve just had to settle for some day-old fish.

But off they go, still lost in paradise, that motley collection of mostly older folk, ever unaware of where they really are.
