---
layout: blog
title: "Clarity"
description: "or lack thereof"
mydate: "November 21, 2014"
tags:
- misc
---

There was a pair of glasses in my CSCE 462 lab. They had been there for well over a month, sitting folded atop a computer. The folks that used that computer, at least in my section, both wore glasses, but they were always wearing their own glasses, not the lonely pair. After we stopped having weekly labs and started our final projects, and I started spending more and more time pacing the length of the lab in consternation, I noticed that, most definitely, those glasses never moved.

That was actually a significant observation. Most everything in that lab was used or moved or lost at some point, a consequence of inexperienced engineers attempting to engineer things with the components and tools scattered about by previous classes. Though the professor lauded specificity in design and stricture in process, he and his assistants never deigned to force those things upon us. A lesson in the pitfalls of chaos, perhaps.

And so it happened that, after unsuccessfully rummaging through one too many clear plastic bins for this or that, I took the glasses. I had needed glasses since I was 16, my once-sharp eyes dulled by a computer screen, and had had them for while, but not the previous three years or so. I guess I was so desperate to find something I actually needed that I settled on a cheap pair of non-prescription glasses. They corrected my vision a surprising amount. Not too much later, I left the lab, my circuit woefully incomplete and my new glasses on my face. It was nearly dusk, which usually meant the steady blur of things further than ten feet away would be strengthening into a dark, messy haze, but I could see so clearly it made my head hurt.

I could make out individual leaves on trees. The sun, peeking around buildings, seemed to glare brighter than ever. I hadn’t realized how much I had to focus just to discern people in the distance, how long it took to decode a fuzzy mess into a pretty girl with a nice coat. It really did make my head hurt, seeing everything as if it were on a high definition monitor two feet from my face.

I’ve been wearing the glasses on and off for a week now. I sat in the back of all my classes once, just to see what the professors’ writing looked like from afar. My favorite thing to see is the throngs out and about in the passing period, though I’m too much of a fan of the sidelong glance to see clearly all the time. The sensation of clarity is extremely relieving. Having struggled through school for what seems like an eternity, looking forward only to a half-eternity more of classes and who knows what else in the sea of missed opportunities back in my home city, I had forgotten what it was like to see or think straight. My thoughts are still as convoluted as ever, but the cheap glasses I stole have reminded me of a time when everything was clear.

In fifth grade, I wrote zeroes to pass the dreary time spent in class. At least, I did when I wasn’t passing notes with my back-row brethren, or walking oh-so-slowly to the bathroom. I started with a blank sheet of notebook paper, and drew the most elaborate number one I could manage in the left margin of the first line. Then came the zeroes. As many as I could fit between the margins, though only one line of zeroes per line of notebook paper for the sake of readability. As I wrote a line out, I would count them, and discreetly mark how many I had gotten in the margin of that line. I shot for 100 per line, but that was difficult to achieve neatly. I don’t remember how many lines the paper I was using had, but the notebook I’m writing in now has 25 lines per page. That means I was probably cramming 2000-2500 zeroes on a single side of a piece of paper. And of course I did both sides.

I was very particular about my zeroes. Erasing was usually not an option because of how close together everything was; it turned into a smudgey, uncomely mess very quickly. So as I was developing my technique, I tossed many a half-filled page. There were also casualties to the rigors of elementary school life. Zero-pages got lost or torn, and I’d have to start over.

But I had plenty of time. Mr. Lynch was not a particularly good teacher. At its zenith, my occupation yielded 3 consecutive pieces of paper, filled front and back with crammed, but discernable lines of zeroes, preceded by a solitary “1”, making it an insanely large number rather than some scribbled nonsense.

Big numbers are often expressed in exponential form, for example 1000 can be written as 10<sup>3</sup>. It’s just an indication of how many zeroes are involved. My number was somewhere in the ballpark of 10<sup>12,000</sup>. For reference, here are some relatively common big numbers:

* 10<sup>13</sup> : number of bits in a terabyte
* 10<sup>43</sup> : estimated number of chess board configurations
* 10<sup>80</sup> : estimated number of atoms in the observable universe
* 10<sup>100</sup> : a googol

At the time, the only math I had to worry about was multiplication tables, so the scope of my achievement wasn’t grasped entirely. But I knew, with certainty, that I was a badass. In just a fraction of the time I spent in class, I had surmounted any math problem Lynch could throw at me. No science experiment could impress me. I would show the pages to my friends and proclaim: this is how many girls I’m going to kiss, or, this is my high score in Galaga. Some laughed. Some were impressed. I really didn’t care, I was doing it for myself. 

If I could just figure out if anything I’ve been doing with my life is for myself, I think I’d be really happy. That alone would remove a lot of uncertainty from my life. As it stands, I don’t even know what I’m doing with my life, in the most literal sense possible. My professor told me to my face, in front of the whole lab section, that I had made a “humiliating mistake” in my circuit and that I would have to figure it out myself. I still haven’t. And that’s just a part of my day-to-day woes, the bigger picture is a lot murkier.

Unfortunately, there aren’t any glasses I will happen upon that will allow me to lift the infinite haze of stress and aspiration. All I can do is keep putting my head down, no matter how many walls I run into, until I break through the last one or I have so many concussions that I lose the ability to notice what I’m doing. There's a joke that goes: success is like being pregnant, everyone congratulates you, but no one asks how many times you got fucked to get there.

And so it seems I have no choice but to keep getting fucked. At least that much is clear. I'd like the rest of the picture to be more defined, but I suppose that's part of the fucking, isn't it.




