---
layout: blog
title: "Lovely"
description: "Getting my V-day musings out the way"
mydate: "February 4, 2015"
tags:
- misc
---

I awoke to my 8AM alarm on Tuesday the 14th of February. I swiped left to snooze it until 9AM, when I finally just dismissed it. I had resolved to actually get up and do some stuff before my classes, but it was gloomy and cold out and I had washed my sheets the day before and I was just too cozy, in the nude amidst a veritable womb of blankets.

As usual I got out of bed around 11, and took a too-long shower with the water too hot. Clean towels. I had to shave, my weak stubble just didn’t fit the fresh towel around my waist. The beer gut I had been nurturing, however, spoke quite well to the leisurely morning. By then it had begun to sprinkle outside. I donned my favorite sweater to spite the prospect of biking to campus in the rain again. Eggs and ham and a cigarette for breakfast. I would’ve made coffee, but I had been delaying getting more coffee from the store because the piping hot Starbucks from the location in the library was one of the few things I could actually convince myself to get to campus for.

I checked the clock. At this point I wouldn’t be able to sit in line at Starbucks for 30 minutes, as you always had to around that time of day, and still make my first class. Still, I really had nothing better to do so I suited up for the ride through the steady rain that had developed. Long underwear under my jeans, windbreaker over my purple sweater which I wear so well, my dad’s hardy leather gloves that I pilfered from the winter box so long ago. Earbuds snaked under my shirt, beanie to top it off. I put on my most obnoxious music and set out.

Fifteen minutes later I had ten minutes to kill, so I hit up the library to check the line for coffee. It was as heinous as I’d expected. Though the weather was great for coffee, it wasn’t so much so for romantic gestures. As I passed a girl clutching flowers in a gloved hand on my way to the bathroom, I realized I had been through half of campus without being reminded of Saint Valentine’s ire. I don’t know what he has against me, but it’s stuck.

I got to class, and my roommate didn’t see me and sat with someone else. The first prod from the butt of Cupid’s arrow. In a bad jive all of a sudden, I didn’t pay attention to the lecture and spent the whole time thinking about girls in my classes that I didn’t have the chutzpah to introduce myself to. As usual, my idle speculation was not fruitful.

After class I tried an alternative coffee spot and found the line to be acceptable. They served Seattle’s Best here, and I squirted it out of three different dispensers which each had precious little of their respective flavors left. The hodge-podge brew kept my hands warm on the rainy walk to my next class, and by the time I stripped my jacket off and sat down it was cooled enough to gulp down like the addict I am. The lecture passed bearably quickly, and without any real items of interest, except the girl I wanted to talk to in that class didn’t show.

It turned out that the rain had stopped while Dmitry talked about the technical aspects of the internet, so I stretched my legs a little before heading to my last class. I got a little carried away listening to the tracks I’d recently added to my playlist and strolled in a few minutes late. I took a seat in the back, though I usually sat up front. I had taken to actually participating in this class, partly because I should have taken it one or two years ago and had more-or-less learned the subject matter in classes which this one was supposedly a prerequisite for, and partly to impress the girl who sat in the front and participated. I spent most of the lecture checking out the back of her head. Valentine had me shook this year, that’s for sure.

The professor left us with the TA to take a quiz, and me and my girl stood up to turn it in at the exact same moment. I almost cried at the beauty of it. But then she patently avoided my eyes as she shouldered her backpack, walking to the door as I walked to the front to turn in my quiz. I gathered my things as quickly as I could and nearly dashed out the room. She was nowhere in sight and I guessed which way she had gone, but I appeared to be wrong. As I looked around at hooded and umbrella’d figures shuffling through the reemerging rain, I said to myself, “Lovely.”
