---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "Happy birthday"
mydate: "January 19, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

The paralysis of laziness is startlingly resolute. I have a flight to India tomorrow, but I’ve convinced myself that I won’t prepare until tomorrow. Gonna give it the ol’ go to sleep extra early and wake up extra extra early. Probably not the best idea given that I’m going to want to minimize my sleep during the trip. Maybe if I can sleep early in the trip, I can stay up through the latter part and be tired enough when we land to get to sleep at a reasonable hour.

I suppose I should be worried about packing, but I really just have to put everything in my room into my suitcase. I’ve gone over the checklists for the paperwork several times before I even got to Chicago. I’m pretty prepared. The main thing I’m missing is a cover for my laptop. I ordered it in what seemed a reasonable amount of time, but apparently not. Amazon said it would arrive on Saturday, but as of today it hadn’t even shipped. Not sure what that’s about.

I had birthday dinner with Aidan and Natalie. No one else came out which I’m slightly miffed about, but it was nice being in a small group for a change. I’m not sure how I’ll deal with the social scene at TWU. It’s going to be painful for sure, but hopefully I will learn enough to get going. I get the feeling that I’m the type of person that Bill wants to fire early on. The type that “just doesn’t fit.” I definitely feel aligned with the culture here, but I’m so lacking in the social aspect that I feel I will struggle greatly to be successful here, or even remain. 

It kind of sucks now, but this is what I need. A proper challenge. Not some academic bullshit, something that will really take me to pound town. Having to be social every night, what a nightmare. Bill said I need to learn to marshall my energy at the right times, as well as know what recharges me. I think I will have to start exercising seriously. And not waste my time or energy on being angsty.


