---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "The weather outside is frightful"
mydate: "January 18, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

It's surprising how tolerable 0-degree weather is. After the initial shock of walking outside and coughing because the air is so cold and dry your lungs reject it, anyways. And if it’s not too windy. And if you have somewhere warm to go. And you’re not out there for too long.

All that under consideration, it’s been almost fun walking around with my face hurting from the cold, my breath fogging my glasses with every exhale, my hands being the warmest part of my body snug in their gloves. It gives me the feeling of being a heater with legs. But I have to wrap myself in multiple layers and wear a hat and gloves when I go outside because I was meant to heat a small space, not the vast expanse of downtown Chicago. 

I’ve been here before but it’s still astonishing seeing the city. The nice part of town is so well planned and clean. I think the coolest thing are the gigantic buildings that take up an entire block. But the perfect street grid is also really impressive. 

Another good thing about the cold is that it’s made it quite easy to not smoke. I finished off my pack and bummed one off of Sean, but that’s been it.

When I was smoking the last of my own cigarettes, a guy came up and shined my shoes. It was a neat trick, he asked me for a smoke, and before I knew it he had dropped a glob of cleaning material on my shoe. I suppose I could have told him off then, but it was a smooth move and I had trouble holding it against him. So he cleaned my shoes and of course asked for some money. While there are valid arguments for personal space and commercial honesty, it seemed to be a fairly honest way of scamming a few bucks out of someone.

When we were walking back from dinner the next night, I saw him doing the same thing to another poor sucker.

That’s the kind of stuff I need to get better at. I have the makings of a smooth operator, but I’m definitely not. I’m pretty slow when it comes to social situations. I can usually pick apart the situation afterwards, but in the moment a lot of stuff goes over my head. I also invest too much energy in listening. I don’t actually listen that well, and it impedes my ability to speak out.

More than anything I just need to talk. I have this idea that people will think I’m a complete idiot if I open my mouth. But it doesn’t matter what they think, and it doesn’t matter if I’m an idiot.  

