---
layout: blog
title: "Aaron Swartz 2016"
description: "Reflections on a great person"
mydate: "January 11, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

Today was my first day at ThoughtWorks. It was largely a boring day. We spent most of the time in a conference room, going through paperwork and listening to the intro spiels. I still need to re-read the billing and expensing procedures. The most exciting part was getting our company laptops, MacBook Pro’s with 15” Retina displays. I have always been a “PC” person (I take issue with the term but that’s for another time) for mostly ideological reasons, but within an hour of using this thing I can tell it is a slick piece of technology. 

An hour after we finished for the day, the office hosted an event celebrating the life and work of Aaron Swartz. He was a hacker and political activist who most famously invented wikis, RSS, co-founded Reddit, and lead the campaign to stop SOPA from being passed. In 2013, he killed himself to escape the burden put on him by the pernicious prosecution executed by Stephen Heymann. 

Aaron was an employee of ThoughtWorks during the last year of his life. The person leading the event had worked with Aaron during his time here. It is chilling being so close to such a tragic tale. It is frightening and electrifying being a part of an organization that housed such an influential figure. 

The event was simple. We started with some tasty hors d’oeuvres and leftover pizza from lunch. I talked to another Associate who started last year about my upcoming trip to India for training. I was briefly introduced to Martin, one of Aaron’s colleagues, before he was called on to begin the event. Martin briefly told us about Aaron as a person, and the ideals he embodied. Then we watched the documentary “The Internet’s Own Boy.” You can watch it on YouTube, and I suggest you do. It tells the tale of a boy genius who, dissatisfied with the disconnect in what he saw in the world and what he was told about it, set out to change it. 

His quest to change the world started in the technological realm. His innovations were driven not only by technical expertise, but also by a broader understanding of how networks of information could change the way people think and act. People initially dismissed the idea of a wiki as idiotic; now Wikipedia is one of the top 10 most visited sites on the World Wide Web. These kinds of revolutionary ideas about technology, information, and people catapulted us into a new age of society and commerce. 

The idea of disconnects between reality and established views really resonated with our group. Becca, a first generation American, described some of the awful things Americans think about Nigeria. A man from Ukraine, whose name escapes me, told us about his experience peacefully protesting during their recent struggles, and how the Russian media portrayed it as a violent affair. 

Someone brought up Facebook’s Free Basics, and how it was shut out of the Indian market due to a massively negative public response. The Indian people were able to avoid succumbing to what is likely an attempt at side-stepping the open web because the attempt smelled all too wrong. Many nations have developed an intimate knowledge of imperialist and corporatist machinations. 

Aaron used his intimate technical knowledge and strong identity to change the technological landscape. But after becoming disenchanted with startup culture, he moved towards more political ends. He was convinced that real change would only come by updating the legal landscape to better serve the information age that was and is taking the world by storm. 

A major, if not the major, concern for Aaron was freedom of information. One of his many efforts in this scope ultimately lead to his demise. But even while being run into the ground by a misguided hand of the US justice system, he managed to achieve an astounding victory.

His victory was the defeat of the Stop Online Piracy Act, or SOPA. Aaron and his colleagues religiously researched the workings of Congress. Using their intimate knowledge of the games which govern Capitol Hill, they repeatedly delayed and confounded their attempts at passing this legislation. Aaron lead a charge which garnered unheard-of support from the public as well as major players in the tech industry. Ultimately, the grassroots movement that he inspired and developed resulted in SOPA being defeated and pulled.

This success was a dazzling and pumped up victory of the people on the ground. True, the people on the ground in this case are much better off than those in rural India or the Congo, but they are part of the same narrative. Those who face oppression and hardship cannot be served by an uninformed third party. That third party could be a Congress that debases titans of industry as nerds, or a titan of industry that seeks dominion over a rural population in a foreign country, or a well-intentioned group proffering charity. Only the people on the ground can determine what they truly need. 

Aaron’s success in defending the underpinnings of modern commerce and culture did not come in one swift blow. One of the metaphors from the documentary is that he struck a match to light a fire under the movement, but it went out before the fire took. So he lit another. When that one petered out, he lit another. He continued until the fire blossomed.

One of the participants of the event posed a final question, “What match would Aaron light in 2016?”

We had no answers. After some reflection, I think it would likely have to do with one of the international trade agreements that have been drafted recently. They exhibit the characteristic lack of knowledge about culture and commerce in the information age, and strive to impose the will of a few on a very many. But who’s to say he would tackle those problems over those posed by our increasingly illiterate Congress?

All that can be said for sure is that many matches need to be lit in the near future, and we have one less person with the resolve to keep lighting them.

