---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "Flying to India"
mydate: "January 23, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---


I’m officially in India now. We left on Wednesday afternoon, Chicago time, and arrived at our destination in Pune on Friday morning, New Delhi time. We were supposed to arrive the previous night, but our ORD-DEL flight was late by two hours so we missed the DEL-PNQ flight which was only an hour after the first landed. 

The ORD-DEL flight was roughly 14 hours, and not as bad as I thought it might be. It was still pretty bad; I started getting ancy about 6 hours in, and there was a toddler right next to us who would scream at the top of her lungs whenever she was awake. But I managed to sleep through a good bit of it, and because I was in the aisle, I was able to get up and stretch a few times. The older Indian couple next to me was really apologetic whenever they made me get up to use the restroom, but I was almost ecstatic when I had an excuse to get up. Very few people seemed to be getting out of their seats for recreation, so I felt almost childish doing so, as arbitrary as that is.

We got our first tastes of Indian culture on that flight. We were served 3 meals, which were all pretty good. But each time, the flight attendant very deliberately leaned over me and served the older couple first. Not terribly surprising, but the first time I was a little taken aback. It was my turn, and I wanted my food damn it! While I was absorbed in my selfishness, Rebecca noticed other tendrils of the patriarchy. One man cut off his wife’s drink order, ordered a beer, and then drank it (after drinking his own beer of course). Another simply took his wife’s drink without comment. I noticed no such tendencies from the husband sitting next to me, though now it occurs that I may have not seen anything because I wasn’t looking for it.

We also got a taste of the Indian notion of queues. Tania seemed to think the men cutting in front of her during boarding and de-planing was another symptom of the patriarchy, which may have been the case, but I was cut off by several men and women. I don’t think there was malintent there; it seemed reminiscent of the Asian folks at the fish market in Oxnard, who, despite being mostly neighbors and friends quite nearly barrelled over each other to get to the fish. I think the idea of first-come-first-serve is seen in a more literal light. That is, the queue is an abstraction, and talking to the merchant or walking off the plane is concrete.

Once we were off the plane, going through immigration was a breeze. I think only Audrey’s clerk paid any real mind. But finding where to continue our journey was itself a journey. The New Delhi Indira Gandhi Airport is a monstrosity. The international terminal alone seemed to be as large as a single airport back in the states. I believe most if not all international flights come in through DEL. And so we attempted to follow the signage to the right place, first ending up outside.

We stepped out into a haze of cigarette smoke and vehicle exhaust. I had thought the smog in Los Angeles was impressive, but the smog in Delhi limits your vision to about 100 meters (I pulled that number out of my ass but you really can’t see that far). Through the smog I could see the busy street servicing the terminal. As we looked and asked around, we found out that we needed to go up to the third story of the monstrous structure. We took several inclined escalators up, to find ourselves looking out at the second street servicing the terminal. We would later be whisked away on that road to our hotel after finding out that we had missed our flight.

The Air India people were nice and matter-of-factly about the whole thing. They told us the next flight they could put us on would be the next day, and that they would set us up in a hotel for the night free of charge. It seemed to be a fairly common occurrence, and the guy tasked with finding transportation for 9 foreign travellers hardly seemed flustered. We didn’t actually know what time our flight would be leaving, or how we were going to get back to the airport, but Ramon patiently herded us into cabs, minimally answering our questions between numerous phone calls. I ran into him when he delivered our tickets for the 5am flight to the hotel and arranged for our transportation with the hotel operator. 

The trip to the airport was meditative compared to the trip from the airport. I don’t know when rush hour is in Delhi but we certainly seemed to catch it at 6:30 in the evening. I somewhat expected the free-form nature of driving in the city, but experiencing it while crammed into a cab with 50 pounds of luggage was both terrifying and inspiring.

The first thing to note is that we and all our stuff took up three cabs. The first one, containing most of our luggage and a couple that shared our predicament, took off while we were still trying to ascertain our situation. It straight up drove away with 80% of our shit, ostensibly to a hotel which we didn’t know the name or address of, in the company of a driver we hadn’t spoken to and a couple we had spoken a couple sentences to. It seemed outrageous, but we were too lost and confused to be anything close to outraged.

After Ramon got the luggage taxi locked down, he got the first one for passengers. Its trunk was occupied by tiny benches facing each other. Between that, the back seat and the passenger seat, 6 of us crammed into the the cab, which in terms of raw size was about as big as a mid-size SUV. The remaining three of us got into the second cab that Ramon flagged down. The cab drivers didn’t know each other, and yet they were tasked with caravanning us to the hotel. And so we set off, our drivers communicating with honks while they were moving, and by getting out of the car and talking to each other in the middle of traffic when we were stopped. 

My cab was in the back, and we were tailgating the first cab like there was no tomorrow. Steven, who got stuck in the very back, spent most of the trip looking wide-eyed at the bumper of our car, which was about a foot away from him regardless of our speed. Cars and mopeds sped around our humble caravan, honking and veering. If they needed to get into a lane, or make a turn, they just did it, honking to let the people they were plowing into know the deal. While at the airport we noticed that most of the cars had dents and scratches, and its easy to see how they got them. But it was truly astonishing how well the mad dash worked. Despite some really iffy moments, we neither participated in nor witnessed a single collision, not even a friendly fender bender (much to Steven’s delight). 

We got caught up in a traffic jam for a good 15 minutes. Our speculation concluded that a cow had meandered into the road. In this province (or is it a state?), cows are protected, and if they decide to chill in the middle of the street, they get to chill in the middle of the street. We spent our traffic jam in the middle of a T intersection, and when things started moving again, two cars darted out in front of us and tried to cross over to the rightmost lanes. Immediately, a cacophony erupted. The honking persisted long after they inched their way past us into the next lanes, but it eventually died down.

Soon after that we began to encounter large amounts of people on the road. On our way to the traffic jam, there were sporadically people just out in the road. Some were trying to cross, others were hailing cabs, one guy had stepped off his moped to take a leak. But we took a left turn onto another road and half the ramp was packed with pedestrians looking for rides. Whenever we slowed, people would start approaching us and the driver would have to wave them off. I couldn’t tell where they had come from; there didn’t seem to be a substantial sidewalk or building for them to have come out of. 

Right when I was starting to get into the groove of things, to not be taken aback at the abrupt lane changes or frequent honking or insanely close margins that the moped riders seem comfortable with, we had to cross a major road. We came up to it and stopped, and I envisioned us doing the awkward creep and crawl that the two cars had done in front of us. But very soon our drivers started waving at each other. We pulled up next to the first cab. Cars streamed along in front of us. There were no opportunities for us to cross the road that I could see, but our drivers saw differently.

With horns sounding, we dashed across the road. As we went, the oncoming traffic also let their horns rip. There were pedestrians crossing in front of us, but we just plowed straight through into the side streets. All of us screamed and clutched each other. But despite all the evidence of death, we made it through fine.

We had no time to recover before our caravan started doing a different dance. The narrow side streets were rife with pedestrians walking on both sides of the street as well as in the middle of it. We sidled past them in turn with cars going the other way. Here, the honking actually ramped up. In the main streets it was often used as a signal, but here there were many more signals to give. Pretty much any time there was a corner a pedestrian could abruptly walk around, the driver gave a little honk. He also did so at intersections to notify everyone of his intent to barrel on through.

After what seemed like an eternity, we arrived at Hotel Transit. Thankfully, all our luggage had been dumped in the lobby. We each got our own room, and they even served a homely dinner. Before long, we had gotten our flight information and promptly hit the sack.

The plan was to meet in the lobby at 2:30AM, which we mostly stuck to. The hotel arranged our cab ride, and we got onto our flight with little to note. I did accidently drink some tea with ice in it, but it seems I got off without my stomach being too disturbed by it.

The streets in Pune had a similar feel to the ones in Delhi, but with much less volume. The most surprising thing was seeing cookfires along the road. They way they talked about Pune was as an urban center so I had a certain idea that it would be like Austin or Dallas, but it seems to be a lot less developed in terms of raw construction. In the construction site next to our apartments they pour the concrete into the pillars by hand instead of using something to pipe it in. 

We checked into the apartments about 15 minutes before the shuttle arrived to take us to the office. The Pune office is in a building similar to the Chicago one, and they have 1.5 floors. TWU takes up about a third of the area on the whole floor. We got to hear from the head of TW India, and got to meet our teams. I was gassed most of the day, and fell asleep right after I got home.
