---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "queue Ice Cube"
mydate: "January 14, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

Today was a good day. I got to flex my dev chops on a solo assignment. I am happy with how the code turned out. It is extremely clean at the top, and clean enough at the bottom. The other devs’ code is at similar places. Rebecca and I seem to have a similar style. Our implementations were fairly different but we broke the problem down similarly. I think my code is cleaner at face value, but after working on a couple more stories it seems like her approach would have fewer headaches moving forward.

I didn’t really compare my tests with everyone else's. I’m slowly getting the hang of writing tests in a manner that will iteratively flesh out the behavior I’m looking for. It’s still hard to balance staying on the current story and trying not to make awful design decisions. I made a big no-no; I made several changes while one of my tests was failing. It was a shitty test for the direction I wanted to go, but it was almost word-for-word from the user story so I felt like I couldn’t delete it. I eventually did delete it, and the remake it again when the program had a good spot for it. 

I was concerned that I was spending too much time refactoring, but it seems like everyone else spent a similar amount of time refactoring. Choosing which pattern to use is a nightmare, but I think that’s mostly because the good/common ones are totally ingrained yet. It’s easy to come up with some solutions, but not easy to decide which one to act on. It was interesting to see how people dealt with the player concept. I venture to say that I succeeded on that point, as I entertained most of the patterns the other devs used, but settled on one that Bill showed us a while ago because I finally remembered it. I’m glad to have found a proper use for enums other than flags. I always knew they were too cool to not use.

But bringing the ‘correct’ pattern to the front of my mind was difficult. It’s going to take a lot more attempts until dishing out refactorings is as easy as dishing out new classes from failing tests. On that note, doing a TDD kata for warm up this morning really got me in a good place. Gotta keep writing code and get those patterns internalized.

I do wish we would pair more. It seems like we don’t get to do much pairing, even though we’ve done it for several hours in the past couple days. Bill likes to break often, which is why I think it seems like we don’t do it very much. Hopefully before TWU we will have a session like this afternoon, except paired.

Hopefully I remember all the things I’m learning.