---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "Day Off"
mydate: "January 24, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

Today was our first free day. In this case “we” are the NA people, as some of the other regions got a day or two before orientation. I seem to have corrected my sleep schedule, despite sleeping from 7pm to 11pm last night. I managed to get back to sleep around 2:30 and then wake up at 7. I’m dead tired right now but I’m going to try and last another hour. The ideal time to go to bed would probably be in 10 minutes, but the way things are looking I won’t be asleep by then.

The morning mostly consisted of trying to make plans. We entertained the possibility of going rock climbing, but the place was closed for a competition. In the end I think everyone ended up going to the mall. For lunch I got some fried rice that was almost entirely rice. Sean and Declan got these little chicken drumstick things that were battered that looked incredible. As far as shopping goes I just got a nice Columbia shirt for outdoorsy things. I don’t have enough long sleeves shirts and it was easier to just get an activity one instead of a couple casual ones.

I’m thinking about getting a kettle to make to. I almost got one at the grocery store for $15, but I didn’t because I wanted to see how much I’d be at the apartment to actually use it. Looking at the price on paper now makes me wish I had just gotten it. I also need to get another pair of pants. The two pairs of jeans strat isn’t really working out; I sweat too much for them to be as rewearable as I’d like.

I spent the afternoon lazing about on the roof. When I saw roof I mean more of a terrace/open patio deal that’s on the top floor of the apartment. It’s just a sitting area that is shaded and protected with windows. It’s also the only place in the building with wifi, which makes it quite popular. Breakfast is served there too, so it’s pretty much the shit.

My room is right below the wifi routers, and my computer will pick up the signal intermittently. I got a good bit of music listening in this morning as I was organizing my room, but since then I haven’t even been able to load a web page. 

Anyways, as far as afternoon was concerned, a couple of us tried to find good places to drink that were within walking distance, but we couldn’t really come up with anything. We ended up deciding to try this place called the Flying Saucer, which is on the top 2 floors of a realty building. One floor is a club/lounge type deal, and the other floor is an open terrace with a great view of the city. If there wasn’t so much smog and light, you’d be able to see the sky pretty well.

It was pricey compared to what we’ve been eating recently, but it still ended up being ~$12/person with 8 people. We didn’t get any real drinks though. Rebecca A got a mojito which turned out to be as expensive as her entree. The menu was an odd mix of Indian, Thai, and American food. Indians seem to be pretty big on pizza; there are a ton of pizza joints and the big places we’ve gone have all had pizza on the menu. The Pizza Hut at the mall is a sit-down joint that looks extremely respectable. 

The KFC’s here have a “pizza” dish that is a fried chicken patty with cheese and pizza toppings. All the McDonald’s foods are made with chicken instead of beef. Beef isn’t terribly popular in general but in Maharashtra beef was actually banned sometime last year. They say pork is available but I haven’t seen it. In India it seems you are either vegetarian or really like chicken. 

We got more practice dodging hungry children on the streets today, and dogs too. Judith gets really affectionate whenever she sees one of the stray dogs laying in the street, and one of the times she was cooing wistfully at a particularly sad looking doggy he gave a sort of howl that was really sad. I wish I had more to say on the matter, but it’s unfortunately simple: I can’t help those kids.
