---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "Tour of Pune"
mydate: "January 23, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

My sleep schedule is officially foobar’d. Today, Saturday, I woke up at 2:30AM by virtue of going to sleep at 7PM the previous day. I stayed up all day until about 5 when I finally took a nap. I was supposed to go and get drinks/dinner with a big group but I slept through it. It’s now almost midnight and I’ve just woken up from a 6 hour nap!

One good thing is that I’m eating a lot less. In terms of volume as well as fat. A lot of stuff here is vegetarian, and the only meat I’ve encountered is chicken. Got a bunch of exercise too. Once I get back on schedule with my sleep I’ll be the healthiest dude around!

We did a couple touristy things today. First we went to this model village, which had a ton of sculptures of “villagers” doing what they do in rural India. The figures were really well done and they even had structures like houses and pavilions. They depicted activities ranging from the sale of bangles to festival activities arranged around Hindu myths. 

It was kind of weird traipsing around this quaint little depiction of the rural poor that was walled off with concrete and barbed wire. We also passed a slum on the way there. Towering in the middle of it was a billboard for a jewelry shop, and every shanty that I could see had a satellite dish. Apparently we will be going to an orphanage in a real village while we are here.

After the model village we went to the Aga Khan palace, which is most famously where Gandhi lived for a number of years. We got a brief tour of the rooms that Gandhi, his wife, and close friends occupied. Nowadays the rooms are filled with art and various remnants of their possessions.

Then it was lunch time and we all went to a restaurant that had a buffet. The three curries I had were all incredible, and there was a really good bell pepper and chicken salad too. One of the desserts were these fried pastries that were submerged in some kind of sweet liquid. Someone aptly described them as soggy churros. I sat with Sean, Arundhati, and Aditi. We compared holidays and discussed the universal truth of grandmothers’ approach to feeding their progeny.

After that the NA folks and a couple others walked to the Pheonix Mall to do grocery shopping. On the way there, a couple kids came up to us and begged for money. It was a boy and a girl. The girl gave over quickly, but the boy stuck to me. He kept asking me for 2 rupees and patting his stomach. I told him no, but he persisted. It went on so long that even his sister was calling to him. Eventually I moved away from him and he stopped.

It was a really jarring. For starters, I flat out refused to give this kid 2 rupees. That’s 3 cents. And because he was making such a commotion, everyone with me saw me outright refusing him that. They did the same, but it felt horrible having them look back at me, expressionless, and then continuing on. Not only because I was refusing him money, which can be justified a hundred ways depending on your tastes, but because I couldn’t even communicate to him that I wasn’t going to give him money. There was no excuse for leading him on like that, even though I didn’t mean to do so. It seemed to be the epitome of my problems with social anxiety and communicating with other people. 

So of course I was off kilter the rest of the day. The quest to be more verbal took a backseat to mulling once again. After getting back from the mall I went straight to sleep. I was supposed to wake up at 7 to go have dinner and drinks with the group, but I slept through it. Apparently most of the people in TWU showed up. I don’t know what people are doing tomorrow but I’m going to make an effort to participate.


