---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "Indian Republic Day"
mydate: "January 24, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

On Monday things really kicked off. It seemed that we would never get started, even though we only got in last Friday. My sleep schedule still wasn’t totally on point. I woke up about three hours early, and didn’t get anything done. Pretty sure I just watched old Dota videos. Not much to say about work. We had some good discussions about social justice and feedback, and got more acquainted with how the sessions run. My initial email to Ajay about booking a shuttle for the trek got lost in a folder somewhere, so in between sessions I was scrambling for head counts and information.

After advice from Dwarakesh and Arundhati, we decided to try and leave at 5am for Sinhagad. Sinhagad literally means “fort of the lion” (I think) because of the story of the warrior who led the effort to retake it, who was said to possess a lion’s courage. It’s at the top of a mountain, but I didn’t know this starting out. My assumption was that it was more of a hill type gig, but the climb was steep. I also wanted to leave later, but it was really crowded as it was and if we had gone later it might have been a shit show.

We ended up going with 18 people. There were some more people that wanted to go, but because half the folks going didn’t abide by my anal double-confirmation scheme, it was hard to know who was really going until people started showing up at 5am. The shuttle also carried more people than we thought. We were able to cram all 18 into the shuttle and the car didn’t even come, even though we still paid for it.

We arrived around 6:30, shortly before sunset. There was a racing event going on, where 3 teams tried to climb really fast up the trail. A few were really fast, but most we going at our speed. All but six took a reasonable pace and reached the fort in about an hour. Us laggards took frequent breaks and reached the top after a leisurely two hours. The sunrise was beautiful, and it was nice breathing air that wasn’t laden with smog. The climb was a lot more strenuous than I had expected. Once atop the mountain, we did some photos and then settled down for some food.

We sat in a grove of trees on colorful mats, and they brought us dishes one-by-one. While we were waiting, we passed around the snacks that we had brought. The first dish was curd in little pots with little spoons. They gave us containers of spices to mix into the curd: white pepper, masala, and salt. I chose the white pepper and regretted it. I’m not too big on curd in the first place and the white pepper was actually extremely salty and didn’t suit me. 

The second dish was yellow rice with spices, beans, and fragrant leaves that I didn’t recognize. The last dish consisted of fried onions with a spicy onion garnish. When I first saw them, it looked like fried calamari that you get at Italian restaurants. They tasted pretty much like onion rings. Whatever batter they used was really good, and the onions were just cooked enough to not be acrid but still have some kick.

After eating, we walked around the top of the mountain for a bit. Some of the fort structures still remained, but most of it had been replaced by a small village and scenic walkways. The walls of the fort only existed in certain places, and most of it seemed like a humble little tourist spot. At least, it was like that farther away from where people funneled in from the trail and the road. By the time we left, there was a veritable mass of tourists shuffling past the stall vendors and trying to find a good spot of wall to take a picture along. 

Instead of walking down we decided to take cabs back to where our shuttle was parked. The drivers were insistent on cramming all of us into two cars, one of which already had occupants. One of the cars ended up leaving with 12 people, the other 15. I was in the 15 car. It was a riot outside of the near constant fear of death. Switchbacked roads have always made me uncomfortable, but going down one while crammed into a Jeep with 14 other people was not fun, especially when you consider the Indian manner of driving. 

Despite my fears we made it back to the bus and headed home. It took a long time because of traffic and a stop at the beach. To make up for it, I scored some free lunch from Rebecca E.
